# Health Tracker Application

## Overview
The **Health Tracker Application** is a Windows Forms Applications built using Visual Studio 2022 that allows users to mannage their health data including:
- Daily Calorie Intake.
- Exercises performed with calories burned.
- Weight logs over time.

The application stores data in an excel file which can be opened for easy review and analysis. The excel file is generated by the code if it doesn't exist.

## Features
1. **Calorie Input**:
- Log daily calorie intake by amount and date.
- Store data in the "calories" sheet of the excel file.

2. **Exercise Tracking**:
- Logs exercises performed with:
  - Exercise type (running, walking, hiking, etc).
  - Duration in Minutes.
  - Calculated calories burned based on users weight.
- Stores data in the "Exercise" sheet of the excel file.

3. **Weight Logging**:
- Log daily weight by amount and by date.
- Store data in the "Weight" sheet of the excel file.

4. **Excel File Management**:
- Data is stored in a structured excel file ("HealthData.xlsx").

5. **Easy to use Interface**:
- Menu driven interface with seperate pages for each function.
- Easy menu transitions between each function for clear use.

---

## Requirements

### System Requirements
- Windows 10 or higher.
- .NET Runtime (included)

### Software Dependencies
- EPPlus Library for excel file management

---

## Installation of Code through Visual Studio (Please navigate to release version if you would like to install an .exe file without use of an IDE.)
1. **Clone Repository**
  - Click on <> Code.
  - Copy the HTTPS web url link.

2. **Open Visual Studio 2022**:
  - Under "Get Started" click "Clone a repository".
  - Paste the web url link obtained from GitHub.
  - Adjust installation path if desired.
  - Click "Clone".

3. **Run the Application**:
  - Wait while the repository is installed on your device.
  - Right click the solution and click "Restore NuGet Packages".
  - Open Solution
  - Click "Run without debugging" to run code (If a debugging enviroment is desired then user will need to rebuild in debug configuration).

## Usage
### Main Application Page
- From main menu select one of the following options.
  - Track Calories.
  - Track Exercise.
  - Track Weight.
  - See Results.

### Calorie Input Page
- Select different date if applicable.
- Enter calories consumed for the day.
- Click **Save** to store data in excel file.

### Exercise Input Page
- Select different date if applicable.
- Select type of exercise.
- Enter minutes exercised.
- Enter current weight in pounds.
- Click **Save** to store data in excel file.

### Weight Input Page
- Select different date if applicable.
- Enter weight in pounds.

### See Results
- Selecting this option will close the application and open your excel file.
- First time use will cause the excel file to be created in the data file of the project.
- Subsuquent uses will open the already created file showing existing data

---

## Development Details
- **Language**: C#
- **Framework**: 4.8 .Net Framework
- **IDE**: Visual Studio 2022
- **Excel Management**: EPPlus Library

### Project Structure
- **Forms**:
  - "HealthApp.cs": Main Menu Form.
  - "CaloriesInputPage": Calories Input Form.
  - "ExerciseInputPage": Exercise Input Form.
  - "WeightInputPage": Weight Input Form.

- **Helpers**:
  - "ExcelManage.cs": Manages excel file creation, data writing to the different sheets, and opening up the file.
  - "ExerciseHelper.cs": Provides MET based calorie calculations for exercises and provides the list that the combo list uses in the exercise form.

## Future Enhancements
- Added graphical charts for reviewing trends in the data.
- More exercises and MET calculations
- Data exports.
- Reviewing data from inside the app.
- Multi-user support.

## Troubleshooting
- All errors or issues should be avoided due to exception handling and data verification.
- For issues contact zachary.menlove@gmail.com



